Welcome to Plar Rose podcast. You are
about to be blessed by the teaching
ministry of Pastor Akim. It is going to
be an enlightening time in God's word,
renewing your mind and transforming your
life to fulfill God's purpose. We pray
for you that you are established in all
the truths of God's word taught today.
Let's get right into it.
>> Welcome back to the PlaySt.
This is your daily dose of God's word
transforming you to fulfill God's
purpose for your life. Now, we're
looking at healing the newness of life.
And what we have been striving to do is
to establish the reality of healing as
present in the newness of life. You
know, in some cases, people might say it
as healing is in redemption and that
would be an absolutely accurate way of
also saying it. When people do say it
that way, there might be ways they
present it that might leave people
confused, that might distort the
accurate um understanding of how it it
works. And that's the reason why we are
trying to patiently arrive at the way we
ought to think of healing as available
in newness of life based on what the
word of God says on the matter. Now
remember that we're looking at the
newness of life because we have seen
that for us to fulfill God's purpose, we
have to grow in the realities of the
newness of life to do so. This growth
happens on our mind. It happens to the
hidden man of our mind. But it is in the
realities of the newness of life we grow
to be able to fulfill that purpose that
God has for our life. without growing in
the realities of theness of life which
we could readily argue are simply the
realities of the spirit of God then we
we are not going to be able to fulfill
God's purpose and in fact we would find
that every reality God provides in the
newness of life he has granted us to
partake of today he considers necessary
for our work so we might find oursel at
different junctures needing one or the
other of these realities we have in
theness of life in the pursuit of God's
purpose and everyone counts for example
after healing in newness of life we'll
be looking at preservation in newness of
life and we have a good number of
scriptures even in the pie as much as in
the for gospel book of arts that show
the need of preservation as we carry out
God's purpose we can't ignore any of the
realities we have in theness of life and
simply say all that is available is
maybe the new character that we have as
important as that is it doesn't make any
other truth or or any other reality I
mean that is available in the newness of
life less important to all that God has
called us to do. We need to be
wholesome. We shouldn't throw away one
because of another or being dree about
it because um maybe the picture of what
is absolute that is available in the age
to come is not presently available now.
We must contend for what we have now
even as we know we are to keep hope for
what only will be fulfilled then. So
back to looking at healing the newness
of life. What we have been doing is
drawing the boundaries of what is
available today and seeing the
connection between what is available
later and what is available today. Now
in drawing the boundaries of all
available today we've seen 2 Timothy 1
verse 9 down and was to verse 10 where
we are told that we were saved and
called with a holy calling and it is not
according to our works but according to
his purpose and grace in Christ before
time began but then it has now been
revealed. So we have been called to
something that has now been revealed you
know by the appearing of our savior
Jesus Christ you know and it says he has
abolished death who has abolished death
and has brought life and immortality to
light through the gospel. Light and
immortality is not just a proposed
reality is a present and visible one. It
has been brought to light. Life and
immortality has been brought to light
through the gospel. Of course this is
first seen in the person of the Lord
Jesus his redemptive work. But we have
said if we say Jesus has abolished death
completely. We are still seeing death in
this world. And also we say Jesus has
brought life and immortality to light.
We are wondering we haven't yet seen
immortality at least. So we are seeing a
disparity between what redemption has
accomplished and what is available
today. And we must be able to make clear
and sound judgment in that regard. So
redemption has completely defeated death
and has completely brought life. But
what is available today is not
everything that has been accomplished.
What is available today is not the full
effect of what has been gotten by
redemption. Clearly 1 Corinthians 15
tells us that immortality and
incorruption that is immortality of our
body and incorruption of matter would
only happen at Christ's coming. So every
other thing in the newness of life is
available except immortality and
incorruption as far as the word of God
goes on that matter. Every other thing
is available except immortality of our
bodies and incorruption of matter. And
that's what the word of God presents on
the matter. So the question is
if immortality is available to our body
is but is only going to happen at the
end. Is there anything in the newness of
life available to our bodies today?
One of the ways to know is by looking at
how immortality will be affected in our
body and to see by that how whether
there is any way something else is being
affected in our body. Now, all right.
And in doing this, we have seen how
immortality will be affected in our body
at Christ's coming. We looked at
Philippians 3 20:21 is going to conform
our lowly bodies to his own glorious
body by his working. How is he going to
do that work? Romans chapter 8 and in
verse 11 tells us that the same way God
raised up our Lord Jesus from the dead
by spirit, he's also going to give life
to our mortal bodies by spirit. And the
life he's talking about there is
immortal life that will swallow up our
mortality. You can see that in 2
Corinthians 5 and verse 4. He said we
don't want to be disembodied. We don't
want to be unclothed. Rather we want our
want mortality to be swallowed up of
life. And God has given us guarantee of
this by giving us his spirit. So the
spirit is going to subsume the mortality
that we presently have today at his
coming. But is there a work the spirit
does to our bodies yet mortal?
Without this part of removing mortality
entirely, our bodies will age and we're
going to die and transition from this
world you know in hope of the world to
come. But whilst we are in yet whilst we
are yet in this mortal body, word is
available to our bodies in terms of the
new life we have in terms of the power
of God. Well, in the last episode I took
us to Matthew chapter 28. The same
spirit that is going toffect immortality
in our body is said to be affecting
certain physical realities as well
today. And we saw it in the ministry of
the Lord Jesus.
The same kingdom of God where we are
going to witness incorruption is
available to us to witness healing today
as well. You could see it in Matthew
chapter 28.
The Lord had actually healed someone who
was blind and mute in Matthew 8. I mean
Matthew 12:28 in verse 22 he said the
party said uh they brought to him one
was demonp possessed blind and mute and
he healed him so that the blind and the
mute man both spoke and saw. So
something was affected in his physical
body. And in verse 28, it goes on to
say, "But if I cast out demons by the
spirit of God, surely the kingdom of God
has come upon you." Remember that in 1
Corinthians 15:50, it says, "The kingdom
of God is only going to be inherited
when there is no mortality.
Yet there is the there is the
understanding that there is the kingdom
of God now and yet the kingdom of God to
come."
For example, in Colossians chapter 1 and
verse 13, he said, "He has delivered us
from the b um from the power or the
authority of darkness and has translated
us into the kingdom of the son of his
love." Okay, you know, you talk about
the kingdom of God as a present reality.
We have already entered into that
kingdom. Romans 14 and verse 17, the
kingdom of God is not eating and
drinking, but righteousness, peace, and
joy in the Holy Ghost. is saying we are
in the kingdom,
right? And you know there are several
texts to that effect. But then there is
the kingdom of God as is a a state where
there is no corruption whatsoever.
So there's eternal life today and
there's eternal life to come. There's
the kingdom of God today and there's the
kingdom of God to come. We could also
say there is the work of the spirit
today and there is the work of the
spirit to come. There's the work of the
spirit today and there's the work of the
spirit to come. So the work of the
spirit to come that is in the coming age
the power of the age to come. You know
that work of the spirit is to subsume
mortality and corruption bringing us
into a state of immortality and
incorruption. But there is the work of
the spirit today to the same body and we
could even say as we'll see in a later
subject matter on the same cosmos.
There's a work of the spirit to our
bodies and on the cosmos that is
available to us today. We need to be
aware of it so we can take a hold of it.
In Matthew 12:28, the Lord said, "If I
cast out demons and in this case, he was
healing the sick by the spirit of God,
surely the kingdom of God has come upon
you." We'll start with that. So he did
this work by the spirit of God and it
wasn't a case of expelling mortality. It
was a case of expelling demons,
sickness, and disease. Now I want us to
go to Luke and in chapter 4. He did it
by the spirit of God.
In Luke chapter 4, you know, the central
emphasis of the baptism of the Lord by
John is the receiving of the spirit, you
know, for ministry, you might say. Of
course, that's I'm pointing that out
because his birth is by the Holy Ghost
and is God who became man. The process
of of that happening within this finite
world was via the work of the spirit.
Now, but then there's this event of his
baptism and the central focus is the
Holy Ghost being received for a work to
do. And the Lord doesn't shy away from
talking about that. In Luke chapter
4:14,
then Jesus returned in the power of the
spirit to Galilee and news news of him
went throughout all the surrounding
regions. We're told he returned in the
power of the spirit.
The news of him went throughout all the
surrounding regions and he taught in the
synagogue being glorified all. Then the
next thing we saw it was in Nazareth
preaching and what did he preach? Verse
18, the spirit of the Lord is upon me.
So the same spirit that is going to
affect immortality and corruption is
what he was functioning in the same
spirit was available. The spirit of the
lord is upon me. It is this spirit that
defines the new life we have. Right?
Okay. So when we say we're in the
newness of life, we are simply saying we
have received the spirit. We are now to
walk in newness of life. We are to walk
in the spirit.
And we see that
with this spirit, the Lord did not just
teach. The Lord healed and he cast out
demons. In Luke 4 and you could read
from 31 downwards, he cast out a demon
from someone. In the later part of that
material, we see in Luke 4 and:e 38, he
arose from the synagogue, entered into
Simon's house. But Simon's mother was
sick with high fever, and he made
request of him concerning her. He stood
over, rebuked the fever, and he left
her. Immediately she arose and served
them. Verse 40, many other people were
sick came to him. The sun was setting.
All those who had any were sick with
various diseases, brought them to him,
and he laid his hands on every one of
them, and healed them, and demons came
out of many. So we see the Lord healing
the sick and casting out demons by the
spirit.
by the same spirit. So the same spirit
that brings to full effect the reality
of the life of God of eternal life is
the same spirit by which we see him
casting out demons, killing the sick.
The same spirit that is going to affect
immortality and incorruption is the same
spirit by which we see the Lord healing
the sick. So he was functioning in the
healing of the sick in the power of the
spirit. When he sent out his disciples,
we're told he gave them power and the
only reference for this power is the
power with which he himself was
functioning which is the power of the
spirit. And in ministering that power
they were to announce the kingdom of
God. We know the kingdom of God in its
full effect is this state where there is
no sin, no death, no mortality, no
corruption, which of course means no
sickness, no disease, no disorder in
nature as well.
Okay. So, and by the power of the spirit
they could heal the sick. It means
healing is available in the spirit.
Healing is available in the life of God.
And the full effect of that healing when
it's that same effect of God's spirit on
our body when it functions in fullness
it's going to be immortality in our
body. But in its foraste in its state
where it is not yet complete not yet in
full effect what is available to us by
that spirit is healing. If we are
unaware like the folks in Romans 6 who
were not walking in the spirit in terms
of their character but were grateful for
the freedom from sin's consequences it
will be the same thing. We are unaware
of what is available in the spirit
available in the newness of life and we
might be missing out on walking in it.
Let me wrap up here for now. Luke 9 and
verse one he called the 12 disciples
together give them power which would be
the power of the spirit and authority
over all demons and to cure diseases.
and he sent them to preach the gospel
and to heal the sick.
Amen. So there is healing for the
physical body in the spirit and in the
newness of life that we have today.
We're going to continue from there in
the next episode. See you there.
>> We trust you are blessed by today's
episode. Do stay in faith about all
you've heard to walk in it. To learn
more of God's word, visit pleose.org.
You will find answers to your questions
on the gospel, God, his purpose, and how
to fulfill it. Whilst on our website,
don't forget to join the Pllearose
community channel on WhatsApp. And
follow us on all our social media
handles at Plurose_Hog.
For now, stay blessed and keep walking
in his purpose.